nationalization : all things come under govt , 
1. there is much corruption ,2 . no accountability ,3. no check and balance  4.  poor management 5. less production

privitization ;
inverse of nationalization.
export and import is balance sheet and , thus  GDP is imroved by balance sheet.

Musharaff's era 2001 , 2002 years short notes  judiciary, akbar bugti, Lal masjid operation Islamabad,
	 construction of motorways, higher education,
Can be come as long ques.
USA  imposed "war on terror" , funding by USA on PAKISTAN and played role. after WTC
to resolve Kashmir issue, points by musharaf.     Economy rised very much in his ERA. 


""""
The plan of junejo was that he wanted to lift the martial law from the country. For this , he was also pressurized by parliament.
But Zia was not ready to lift the martial law from the country until the parliament accepts some amendments. The EIGTH amendment was introduced in the country in which 59 articles were amended. The most famous is the 58 II b , through which the president has the power to dissolve the national assembly. So, the NA accepted this and martial law was lifted form the country. 

""""

The Simla Agreement signed by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto of Pakistan on 2nd July 1972 was much more than a peace treaty seeking to reverse the consequences of the 1971 war i.e. to bring about withdrawals of troops.


the 2nd summit of OIC held in Lahore in February 1974 that Pakistan recognised the former Pakistan as the Bangladesh. Pakistan had initially not invited Bangladesh to attend the summit. However, as members of the OIC group gathered in Lahore and put pressure on Pakistan's prime minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, to invite Sheikh Mujibur Rehman to attend. A seven-member delegation from OIC visited Dhaka to invite Sheikh Mujib to participate in the summit. As a result of the 2nd OIC summit, Pakistan formally recognised Bangladesh on 22 February 1974.



The Legal Framework Order, 1970 (LFO) was a decree issued by President of Pakistan Gen. Agha Muhammad Yahya Khan that laid down the political principles and laws governing the 1970 general election, which was the first direct elections in the history of Pakistan



Operation Searchlight was the codename for a planned military operation carried out by the Pakistan Army in an effort to curb the Bengali nationalist movement in East pakistan. The widespread violence resulting from Pakistan's Operation Searchlight ultimately led to the Bangladesh Liberation War, in which Indian-backed Mukti Bahini guerrillas fought to remove Pakistani forces from Bangladesh.
On 16 december, Pakistani forces surrendered in the Dhaka and the East Pakistan become the nation of Bangaldesh.


 			SIX POINTS 
1.  	The character of the government shall be federal and parliamentary.
2. 	The federal government shall be responsible for only defense and foreign affairs.
3. 	There shall be two separate currencies mutually or freely convertible in each wing.
4. 	Fiscal policy shall be the responsibility of the federating unit.

5.   	Separate accounts shall be maintained of the foreign exchange earnings of each of the federating units.

6. 	Federating units shall be empowered to maintain  paramilitary force.


					


					MARTIAL LAWS in the PAKISTAN

			1. 1958-1969  2. 1969-1971  3. 1977-1988   4. 1999-2008

In October 1958 1st martial law was enforced in Pakistan by General Ayub Khan. He dissolved the constitution of 1956 and also assemblies. President Sikandar Mirza was dismissed and General Ayub Khan took over the control of the country as the President. 2nd constitution was enforced on 8th June 1962 by General Ayub Khan. 

cause : An eminent reason of Ayub Khan declaring martial law was the canal water disputes-tensions started to rise and the agricultural based economy of Pakistan largely sacrificed. Iskander Mirza, the last Governor General of Pakistan, simultaneously became the state's first president.

When the situation became out of control, General Ayub Khan resigned as a President and handed over the powers to Army chief General Agha Yahya Khan who imposed 2nd martial law in the country on 25th March 1969.


Army Chief General Zia-ul-Haq imposed 3rd  martial law in the country  on 5th July 1977.

On October 12, 1999 Army Chief General Pervaiz Musharaf dismissed the government of Nawaz Sharif and took control of the country. He  suspended the constitution and imposed the fourth martial law in the country.


			why democracy falils in the pakistan

Despite coming into existence 73 years ago, Pakistan is still endeavoring for an authentic and real democracy

	To begin, upon the creation of Pakistan, a constituent assembly was set up. Firstly, there was an extraneous delay in constitution-making, division of power were not set out and thus leading to political unrest. Moreover, dodging general elections for selecting the members of the constituent assembly meant that it was unrepresentative of the Pakistani population; indicating the lack of democratic process. Thus, since the very beginning, the Pakistani democracy was in shatters, laying down the foundations for a weak democratic system.

	Military interventions in the politics of Pakistan further annihilated the democratic system. Pakistan has experienced Military coups in 1958, 1977, and 1999, which weakened its democratic institutions, and adversely impacted the constitutional and legal developments of the country. As, under military regimes, there is no freedom of expression, creation of political parties, healthy competition, and freedom of the press; all of which are essential factors of a democracy. As a result, democratic values in Pakistani society were lost, and the present-day governmental system lacks political awareness. Thus, military interventions negatively impacted the democratic dynamics of Pakistan.

	 the Pakistani democratic system in many ways follows a monarchy rather than a democracy. There has been a dynastic rule of two families in Pakistan, which formed and led the Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) and Pakistan People’s Party. The fact that these political parties have dominated over the Pakistani political system, and prevented the ingress of other political parties beats the essence of democracy. As, in a true democratic system, new political parties and members are accepted, acknowledged, and promoted. Thus, the dynastic rule of families has affected the Pakistani democratic system.

	it is possible to find ways to establish an effective democratic system This can be done through raising political awareness, creating student unions in colleges and universities so that individuals can be informed on true democratic values.



The Geneva Accords, known formally as the agreements on the settlement of the situation relating to Afghanistan, were signed on 14 April 1988 at the Geneva headquarters of the United Nations, between Afghanistan and Pakistan, with the United States and the Soviet Union serving as guarantors.
The accords consisted of several instruments: a bilateral agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan on the principles of mutual relations, in particular on non-interference and non-intervention; a declaration on international guarantees, signed by the Soviet Union and the United States.

