                               

                                               Allahbad address   1930

                    In this session the political situation was analysed in detail and Muslim demanded a separate homeland 
                                       only to maintain their identification and to safeguard their rights. 
                                Pakistan resolution was the landmark in the history of Muslim of South-Asia. 
                                It determined for the Muslims a true goal and their homeland in north-east and north-west. 
                                  The acceptance of the Pakistan resolution accelerated the pace of freedom movement. 
                           It gave new energy and courage to the Muslims who gathered around Muhammad Ali Jinnah for struggle for freedom.
                Objectives Resolution was constitutional historic frame work provided mechanism to achieve goals for a better life of the people of Pakistan.
                                  The objective resolution had the combine feathers of both western democracy and Islam.


                            1937

         those were terrible times for all Indians except Hindus of course, and particularly for Muslims. Congress during its rule did all in its capacity to  
                                            work against Muslims and their representative political party Muslim League.
      Hindu-Muslim riots were common stories of the day in which the Muslims were always accused for everything. Cow slaughter was banned in many regions.
       The language controversy was given a new life during that time as well. All these events proved that all Congress wanted was to destroy Muslims,
                                                  their heritage and to rule them as masters over slaves.
                     That’s why when Congress ministries resigned in 1939; Muslims of India celebrated Day of Deliverance on 22nd December. 
                                    The Congress doings intensified the feelings of freedom of the Muslims 

                          
                                          two nation theory


                     it is the basis of the creation of Pakistan. According to this theory Muslims and Hindus are two separate nations 
                      by definition; Muslims have their own customs, religion, and tradition, and from social and moral points of view,
                          Muslims are different from Hindus; and therefore, Muslims should be able to have their own separate homeland 
                                  in which Islam is the dominant religion, being segregated from Hindus.
                    Sir Syed’s thoughts were in no way a demand for a separate country for Muslims of South Asia.
                   He was simply pointing out the differences between both cultures and voicing his disappointment
                     at the lack of protection of rights of Muslims in South Asia. But since he used the modern concept of the nation 
               to articulate his thoughts, this formed the foundation for what become the Pakistan movement in the 20th century.
                    The two-nation theory formed the basis of the partition of India and the creation of Pakistan 
                                                  in 1947. The theory simply states that Muslims and
                                     Hindus of South Asia are two different nations based on their contrasting and incompatible religions