


       The first and foremost controversy about the Uprising of 1857 is about its nature and character; Was it a Mutiny or a War of Independence? 
       As mentioned earlier, to the British mind, it was a mutiny not because it had challenged their rule in India but because they considered 
                           it a revolt against a ‘lawful and constituted authority’.  

            The event was branded as mutiny for the first time by the then Secretary of State for India Earl Stanley while reporting the situation to 
            the British Parliament and later on, most of the British writers followed the trend.4
            A patriotic Briton, sincere and loyal to his country and writing from the British perspective could not give it any other name except mutiny, 
                             no matter how objective the writer might have been.
            Even those who later condemned the British policy of oppression and injustice in India did not accept it as a national struggle for independence.

             Sir Syed Ahmed Khan in Causes of Indian Revolt has declared it to be a ‘rebellion’ as it had challenged the authority of the then government 
                but he had very skillfully avoided the use of the word “constituted” or “lawful” as the 
                attribute of that authority and, similarly, he has also avoided the use of the word ‘mutiny’. He calls it a ‘revolt’ and not a mutiny
.                       In fact, one gets the impression after reading his book that he considered the ‘mutiny’ a part of a larger ‘revolt’, 
                        hinting to the popular nature of this uprising. He could not openly declare it a ‘War of Independence’ due to the
                                          sensitivity of the period in which he wrote Risala Asbab-e -Bagahawat-e-Hind.
                             Some British writers who call it a mutiny admit that it was little short of ‘real War of Independence’.


            Zahir statement signifies two very important facts; one that not all the people, particularly the Muslims, were a part of the uprising at Delhi 
                                      and second, that some common Hindus had also joined the rebels in Delhi because people  mentioned in his
                     statement by their profession were mostly Hindus in those days. We cannot find a better conclusion to this part of the paper 
       than what Syed Lutfullah has given in his book. He concludes his arguments about the nature of the Uprising of 1857 in these words: … It was obviously not a mutiny – 
                              the word mutiny was labeled to it by the British to distort and divert the view and blur the judgment. On the other hand
,                                        it was not a war in the ordinary sense of the term for war, in its essence, is motivated by the desire to conquer;
                          and, the people of the Subcontinent who fought and fought so heroically in 1857 did not aim at any conquest.
                       If they wanted to conquer any people or any land at all, it was their own land and their own people, something quite 
                                 different from the conquest aimed at and achieved by Dupleix25 and Clive26, for example. We must, therefore, 
                     put emphasis on the word ‘independence’ rather than on the word ‘war’ and dismiss the word ‘mutiny’ as a cruel joke, if nothing else!