Skills training  is the process of learning job or industry specific skills, typically in a shorter period of time than the COLLEGE  education.

College or university DEGREE  is OBTAINED BY Higher education 

Lets looks  at some points which support the skills. 

1. Job opportunities 

Possessing a skill increases employment opportunities. Today, many industries require base level qualifications. By completing a training course, your employment opportunities become wider. 

2. Personal growth

Skill training not only provides skills in a particular area, but trains students to build and enhance networking, time management, and communication skills.

3. Skilled workforce 

To encourage enterprise and boost employment creation, skilling programmes are coming up with specialised courses on entrepreneurship in different sectors. Instead of training students to work under someone, these programmes focus on leadership and innovation.

		Why college Degree is not prefered

1. Many people especially teenagers donot really know what they are good at. That’s why it is hard to choose the right degree program which benefit them the most

2 
While at school a student needs to devote his time to drilling and memorization. There won’t be much of time for social life and friends.

3 The existing university degree model is dying and doesn't equip learners with the knowledge they need in the fast moving industries.

For learners who go down the higher education pathway, they must ensure they are confident in what industry and career they want before taking on such a big commitment. They must utilise the resources they have at their disposal by taking part in extra curricular activities and joining groups related to their course

Industries who favour skills training must ensure they have a form of re-training in place, to allow their workforce to grow, adapt and increase their career prospects; in that way, employers make the most of their workforce.

These are some reasons why people are prefereing to have skills rahter than college or univrsity degree.
